# Documentation #

**Data** 

This was a retrospective analysis of injury data from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System - All Injury Program (NEISS-AIP) from July 1, 2000 through December 31, 2017, the most recent year for which data were publicly available. Data were obtained through the Interuniversity Consortium for Political and Social Research at the University of Michigan. NEISS-AIP is a collaboration between the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission. Using a nationally representative sample of the over 5,000 emergency departments in the US, NEISS-AIP collects data on non-fatal, intentional (from violence and assault) and unintentional injury related cases. Intentional injuries from self-harm are not coded in the NEISS-AIP. Data on emergency department cases are collected by trained hospital coders and reviewed by a quality assurance team at the Consumer Product Safety Commission (United States Consumer Product Safety Commission, 2021). The Washington University in St. Louis Institutional Review Board deemed this analysis exempt from IRB review. 

Each case within the NEISS-AIP is coded to a single location, either farm, home, school, street, or public property. Farm injury cases – which include injuries on fields, barns, outbuildings, and pastures, and exclude injuries in farmhouses – were the key location of interest, as they were compared to injury cases in homes (inclusive of injuries in houses and surrounding yards, apartments, townhouses, and trailers). The analysis encompasses all nonfatal and unintentional injuries in children aged 0 to 18 years occurring in farms and homes. Due to lower injury reporting rates and hospital visits among child and adult farmworkers (Hoerster et al., 2011; Quandt et al., 2019), patients who left the emergency department against medical advice or without being seen are included in the analytical sample.

The following categories are informed by a 2019 paper on the same dataset, with a different time period (index paper: 2000 to 2017; Zagel et al: 2001 to 2014) and subpopulation (index paper: unintentional injuries in children 0 to 18 years; Zagel et al: all injuries in youths 0 to 19 years) (Zagel et al., 2019): age was coded into four pediatric age groups (<5 years, 5 to 9 years, 10 to 14 years, 15 to 18 years); treatment date coded January to March, April to June, July to September, and, October to December seasons; injury diagnosis, determined by the healthcare provider, was categorized as orthopedic (fracture, strain, sprain, dislocation, avulsion, amputation), soft tissue (laceration, puncture, hematoma, contusion/abrasion, crushing injury), neurologic (nerve damage), foreign substance (poisoning, ingestion, foreign body), skin/conjunctiva (dermatitis, conjunctivitis, burn, radiation), hemorrhage/internal (hemorrhage, internal injury), and other (dental injury, submersion, aspiration, anoxia, other injury). Precipitating cause, defined as the mechanism of injury, was categorized as penetrating (BB/pellet gunshot, firearm gunshot, cut/pierce, foreign body), overexertion, poisoning, bite/sting (including dog bites), environmental (natural/environmental, fire, burns), blunt trauma (struck by or against, pedestrian, fall), transportation-related (motor vehicle occupant, motorcyclist, pedal cyclist, other transport), machinery, and other (inhalation/suffocation, drowning/near drowning, other-specified, unknown/unspecified). Emergency department disposition was grouped as treated, transferred, hospitalized, held for observation, and leaving against medical advice or without being seen.

## References ##
- United States Consumer Product Safety Commission. (2021). NEISS Frequently Asked Questions. NEISS-AIP. https://www.cpsc.gov/Research--Statistics/NEISS-Injury-Data/Neiss-Frequently-Asked-Questions
- Hoerster, K. D., Mayer, J. A., Gabbard, S., Kronick, R. G., Roesch, S. C., Malcarne, V. L., & Zuniga, M. L. (2011). Impact of Individual-, Environmental-, and Policy-Level Factors on Health Care Utilization Among US Farmworkers. American Journal of Public Health, 101(4), 685–692. https://doi.org/10.2105/AJPH.2009.190892
- Quandt, S. A., Arnold, T. J., Mora, D. C., Sandberg, J. C., Daniel, S. S., & Arcury, T. A. (2019). Hired Latinx child farm labor in North Carolina: The demand‐support‐control model applied to a vulnerable worker population. American Journal of Industrial Medicine, 62(12), 1079–1090. https://doi.org/10.1002/ajim.23039
- Zagel, A. L., Kreykes, N. S., & Handt, E. A. (2019). Pediatric Farm Injuries Presenting to United States Emergency Departments, 2001‐2014. The Journal of Rural Health, 35(4), 442–452. https://doi.org/10.1111/jrh.12371


